# SparseMatrix
 Sparse Matrix using a linked list implememntaion in order to find determinants.
com/company package contains code as used and submitted for final grading
src contains testing of certain methods with a main method written for testing

My Matrix is implemented using a singly-linked list. I understand that there may be more efficient ways to implement this, but I feel as though the point of the project was to fully understand how linked lists worked. The list uses a class called MatrixNode for each of it's links, containing data that refers to its row, its column, and what element comes next. The addElement method is, in its worst runtime, O(n), typical of a linked list, as is the removeElement, getElement, and toString methods. The methods iterate through the current list and finds the appropriate spot to put the element in, the appropriate spot totake it out, the correct element to return the value of, or print, doing some pointer magic to make sure that the list stays complete and in order. The setSize, clear, and default constructors are all O(1) because they simply either create, remove,  or change the address of a pointer. The determinant method is O(n) factorial as it working with a matrix of size n and calling itself on a matrix that is size n - 1 until it reaches its base case. 

I chose the implementation I did to fully understand the complexities and usage of a singly-linked list. I started with a variable that also referred to tail, but decided that it wasn't necessary to be able to O(1) access this element because all of the methods that involve manipulation and calculation involve iterating through the entire list as a unit, as opposed to just grabbing a specific element at a time. The next() method was added so as to facilitate this iteration.
